---
layout: post
title: The Faith Expression of Hutterite Women
---

### Welcome! 
Hello! Welcome to Studying with Ainsley ☕️, a blog based on my studies at the University of Manitoba in the Department of Religion. For my final project with Dr. Dubois’s Women and Religion 1 class, I wanted to do something very hands on and get to meet with actual religious women, rather than just reading articles online. So, using my connections to the Hutterite community in Manitoba, I set out to interview various Hutterite women with a variety of roles and responsibilities on their colonies. 

### Some Background

For those who are unfamiliar with Hutterites, they are an Anabaptist Protestant Christian group that was birthed out of the teachings of Jakob Hutter in modern day Germany and Austria. The Hutterites lived in Moravia (in modern day Czechia) in the 17th century until they were expelled for their religion. Hutterites live communally, eating together, worshipping together, and working together. Hutterites have found new homes in North America, and there are large Hutterite communities in the three prairie provinces of Canada: Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba. The Hutterites are well-known for their skills at farming and their overwhelming generosity. 

### What Did I Think I Would Learn? 
When I first started taking this class with Dr. Dubois, I learned a lot about the idea of a Material Witness based off of a reading by Klassen and Lofton about the mediation of Christianity and its connection to gender. Through this, it is an observed phenomena that women tend to practice their religion and act as role models through physical acts, rather than verbal acts of teaching like males. For lots of women in Christianity, their bodies play a role in their devotion, with people like Catherine of Siena and Marie D’Oignies fasting and putting their bodies through immense physical discomfort as a sign of their devotion to God. I set out to find out in a similar way (though not through asceticism) whether or not Hutterite women’s physical responsibilities were seen as acts of devotion, and see what other connections I could make between gender and religiosity. 

### The Method...
I reached out to a number of communities and set up meetings with Hutterite women of various colonies. I had conversations with Glenda from James Valley Colony, Sylvia from Grand Colony, Martha from Bon Homme Colony, Elma from Elm River Colony, and Hannah* from Decker Colony. 
(*name has been changed for privacy purposes.)
In these conversations, I asked them a lot about their day-to-day lives, upbringings, schooling, and responsibilities on their colonies. They each had very different responsibilities which allowed me insight from a variety of persepctives. 

### The Evidence 

In these conversations, I asked them a lot about their day-to-day lives, upbringings, schooling, and responsibilities on their colonies. They each had very different responsibilities which allowed me insight from a variety of perspectives. It’s easy to box people in with the information you can find in a textbook, but I wanted to get a much more personal look, especially since women throughout all histories are underrepresented. I had the idea that the physical outputs of these women’s work would be seen as signs of devotion. Hannah told me, “A lot of Hutterites might articulate it a different way, as an act of love…an act of worship, like you’re actively worshipping through your daily actions and the ways you interact with people, and your submission to …like you’re literally giving your whole existence to the community”. Hannah is a university student, and is becoming a teacher. Many people seek to enter university to get high-paying jobs, for Hannah though she “might have the aptitude and leave and pursue a career [but she is] choosing to give these gifts that [she has] in service to other people who live in the community”. When I spoke to Elma, who is the principal of the school on Elm River Colony, about how she sees her responsibilities, she told me directly: “it’s how I express my faith”. 


# TO BE CONTINUED
 


